---
title: "Blogging restart"
date: "2016-09-23T22:12:03.284Z"
layout: post
path: "/blogging-restart/"
category: ""
description: "After much procrastination, I have decided to take down my current site and replace it with an intermediate journal which is developed using GatsbyJS. This journal will be an intermediate space until the next version is complete."
---

After the last iteration, this space has been dormant. It's mainly because I lost the development setup for the blog module and redoing the setup meant spending more time than I could manage. Even then, I tried couple of times to set it up, but had to drop it midway through since it was messing with my mainstream project’s environment. It's pain in the butt to do project setups on a workday and not work on coding or something else interesting. Besides, the Ruby/Java environments are notorious for these kinda things. Also, I admit the fact that, v5 was done in a frivolous way. I didn't plan much of it in detail and maybe it was because of the rush to put the site out there. It's a shame that I couldn't do much about the blog setup cause I drafted few articles whenever I could find time and then couldn't really publish it. Some of those articles were interesting ones and few were written in the heat of the moment. Anyhow, I know what needs to done and to make sure I do that, I‘m gonna record those things here.

I was thinking about turning the blog module into a journal, so that I can drop my rough ideas and observations without having to polish them much (For some odd reason, blogging feels a bit more formal compared to journals). I put together this journal overnight using [GatsbyJS](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby), a static page generator which uses ReactJS/Markdown with other awesome things. Shout out to the [developers](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/graphs/contributors) for this open source awesomeness. I was planning to develop something like this using ExpressJS and then incidentally found Gatsby which looked much better than what I intended to do anyway. By the time this journal is live, I would’ve taken down the v5 site.

I remember recording audio logs in the past and saving it offline. I started it as a habit during my college days to work on my language skills and that was the time when I didn't know much about podcasting or audio journals, so that meant I didn’t value it as much as I should have. I lost these logs when transitioning to Dubai, with so much in hand at that time, I couldn’t put any effort in finding them. It's such a shame to lose those logs since I recorded them at different timelines of my life. I’d love to listen to them now cause more than the quality of the content, its the context that would’ve been interesting. It's quite common to lose digital data every now and then, so rather than despairing about it, I’m thinking about publishing audio logs as journals once in a while in this space. The idea is to keep them rough, so I don't end up spending much time on it and that will keep the content flowing later in the days.

As a side note, this Gatsby powered journal will be an intermediate setup until I complete v6 of my site. One of the main reasons to do that, is gather content and reuse it later when v6 is live. So far, I haven’t spent much time on planning v6 but sometime later this week, I will drop another journal with all my hazy thoughts on it. The concepts are in a very primitive stage, so maybe its the right time to log them and start the work simultaneously.

On the whole, I am just really excited to see this space getting re-activated. <i class="em em-smiley"></i>
